You might ask, why a stack that is using AngularJS, Gulp, Node.js, etc. The main answer is pretty straight-forward: it matches the current direction of MarkLogic. As of MarkLogic 8 it will support native, server-side JavaScript, it will natively store JSON, it provides a Node.js client which interacts with the vastly extended MarkLogic REST-api. 

Next to that, the MarkLogic Engineering team that also builds all core functionality, are building a [Sample Stack](https://github.com/marklogic/marklogic-samplestack) that uses the same components. The most important difference between SampleStack and this template is that this doesn't provide a static fully-fledged (demo) application, but rather provides a base template, a toolset, and a set of readily available components.

More in general, JavaScript has gained a lot of popularity in all kinds of areas. It was originally used most to make website dynamic in browsers on desktops, but mobile development has increased its popularity. The past years it also became a popular language server-side, further increased by the hype around the JSON format. Server-side JavaScript resulted in amongst other Node.js, which is immensely popular at the moment. Gulp, which runs on Node.js, seems to be the most popular tool to do development tasks with currently. Slush relies on Gulp.

And finally some words on AngularJS. JQuery has been pretty popular over the past decade or so. It is a powerful tool. But it doesn't blend in very naturally in HTML, and it doesn't really provide an MVC-like separation of concerns. AngularJS first of all kind of brings JavaScript and HTML back together, but without the need to mess around with inline scripting. Instead it allows blending in dynamic behavior, and functional components by adding mere attributes and elements. It encourages to break down code into reusable components, and it provides good means to write a web application with an MVC model in mind.

This is probably oversimplifying things, but it hopefully gives some background behind the choices that have been made..